README.md, before:

# Claude + AgentFS + LlamaIndex Workflows

A demo where we run Claude Code within a fully-virtualized file system ([AgentFS](https://github.com/tursodatabase/agentfs)), orchestrating it with [LlamaIndex Workflows](https://github.com/run-llama/workflows-ts) and adding the possibility of reading unstructured files (e.g. PDFs or Word/Google docs) with [LlamaCloud](https://cloud.llamaindex.ai).

## Set Up and Run

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/run-llama/agentfs-claude
cd agentfs-claude
```

Install all necessary dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install 
# you can use other package managers, but pnpm is preferred
```

Now run the demo with:

```bash
# for the first time
pnpm run start

# for follow-ups
pnpm run clean-start
```

And follow the prompts in the terminal

## How it works

All the [filesystem-bound operations](./src/filesystem.ts) are performed on the AgentFS (and not on the real files), thanks to the [`filesystem` MCP](./src/mcp.ts) that exposes the following tools:

- `read_file`: read a file, providing its path
- `write_file`: write a file, providing its path and content
- `edit_file`: edit a file, providing the old string and the new string to replace the old one with
- `list_files`: list all the available files
- `file_exists`: check whether or not a file exists, providing its path

What happens under the hood when the agent is running:

- All text-based files in the current directory are uploaded to a [LibSQL](https://github.com/tursodatabase/libsql) database and indexed
- Non text-based files (namely in PDF/DOCX/DOC/PPTX/XLSX format) are parsed by [LlamaParse](https://cloud.llamaindex.ai) and uploaded with their content converted to markdown text
- When the agent performs a filesystem-bound operation, it calls one of the tools from the `filesystem` MCP
- Other tools (such as WebSearch/Todo/Task) run normally
- If the agent was to call one of the disallowed tools (Read, Write, Edit and Glob), a `PreToolUse` hook would deny the tool call and redirect the agent to using the `filesystem` MCP tools

The integration with LlamaIndex Workflows offers the perfect harnessed environment:

- Files are pre-loaded from the current directory into AgentFS in the first step of the workflow
- The prompt from the user and other information (resume a session, use plan mode or not) are collected from the user directly using human-in-the-loop
- The agent runs in its own step, when everything is ready

## Example prompt

Run the agent in this directory, and prompt it with:

```text
Explore all the available files to you, find the task file, read it and act in accordance with it. If needed, read other files (such as the document on observability in LlamaIndex Workflows).
```

In this sense, the agent should first list all the files, then read `data/task.docx` and follow the task in it, also reading `data/observability_in_llamaindex_workflows.pdf` since the task asks for instrumentation of a LlamaIndex Workflows.

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute, make sure that your code follows the formatting and linting guidelines, running:

```bash
pnpm run check
```

Once your code is compliant with formatting and linting, you can create a pull request from a non-default branch of your fork (e.g. `feat/awesome-feature`, `fix/great-fix`).

## License

This project is distributed under an [MIT License](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat: add tests + test action

README.md, after:

# Claude + AgentFS + LlamaIndex Workflows

A demo where we run Claude Code within a fully-virtualized file system ([AgentFS](https://github.com/tursodatabase/agentfs)), orchestrating it with [LlamaIndex Workflows](https://github.com/run-llama/workflows-ts) and adding the possibility of reading unstructured files (e.g. PDFs or Word/Google docs) with [LlamaCloud](https://cloud.llamaindex.ai).

## Set Up and Run

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/run-llama/agentfs-claude
cd agentfs-claude
```

Install all necessary dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install 
# you can use other package managers, but pnpm is preferred
```

Now run the demo with:

```bash
# for the first time
pnpm run start

# for follow-ups
pnpm run clean-start
```

And follow the prompts in the terminal

## How it works

All the [filesystem-bound operations](./src/filesystem.ts) are performed on the AgentFS (and not on the real files), thanks to the [`filesystem` MCP](./src/mcp.ts) that exposes the following tools:

- `read_file`: read a file, providing its path
- `write_file`: write a file, providing its path and content
- `edit_file`: edit a file, providing the old string and the new string to replace the old one with
- `list_files`: list all the available files
- `file_exists`: check whether or not a file exists, providing its path

What happens under the hood when the agent is running:

- All text-based files in the current directory are uploaded to a [LibSQL](https://github.com/tursodatabase/libsql) database and indexed
- Non text-based files (namely in PDF/DOCX/DOC/PPTX/XLSX format) are parsed by [LlamaParse](https://cloud.llamaindex.ai) and uploaded with their content converted to markdown text
- When the agent performs a filesystem-bound operation, it calls one of the tools from the `filesystem` MCP
- Other tools (such as WebSearch/Todo/Task) run normally
- If the agent was to call one of the disallowed tools (Read, Write, Edit and Glob), a `PreToolUse` hook would deny the tool call and redirect the agent to using the `filesystem` MCP tools

The integration with LlamaIndex Workflows offers the perfect harnessed environment:

- Files are pre-loaded from the current directory into AgentFS in the first step of the workflow
- The prompt from the user and other information (resume a session, use plan mode or not) are collected from the user directly using human-in-the-loop
- The agent runs in its own step, when everything is ready

## Example prompt

Run the agent in this directory, and prompt it with:

```text
Explore all the available files to you, find the task file, read it and act in accordance with it. If needed, read other files (such as the document on observability in LlamaIndex Workflows).
```

In this sense, the agent should first list all the files, then read `data/task.docx` and follow the task in it, also reading `data/observability_in_llamaindex_workflows.pdf` since the task asks for instrumentation of a LlamaIndex Workflows.

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute, make sure that your code follows the formatting and linting guidelines, running:

```bash
pnpm run check
```

And that all the tests still pass (add new ones if needed):

```bash
# here node v22+ is needed
pnpm run test
```

Once your code is compliant with formatting and linting and all tests are passing, you can create a pull request from a non-default branch of your fork (e.g. `feat/awesome-feature`, `fix/great-fix`).

## License

This project is distributed under an [MIT License](./LICENSE).
